paint-dynamics-howto.md, before:

# How to use the GIMP Paint Dynamics
The main scope is describe the guidelines to emulate some paint techniques.
## Dry Media
Dry Media is normally associated with drawing tools, such as *graphite pencils*, *charcoal*, *pastel* and *crayon*.
These drawing tools depending of the material which is build releases onto support surface, in general paper, creating a characteristic mark.
The dry media is probably the most ancestral way of visual communication, for instance, the Lascaux's and Altamira's caves are a great example of that.
The dry media are the main tools to drawing and sketching on the most common artistic tasks.
### Dry Media Techniques
The more common techniques are:

1. Outline
2. Hatching
3. Cross Hatching
4. Pointillism
5. Gradate (Back and Fort Stroke. Scumbling, )
6. Layering

### Dry Media Marks and Emulation techniques
In general all dry media are similar marks among them with variations on the granularity, e.g., the graphite pencil has different hardness and is possible to see the charcoal aspect with graphite pencils with hardness around 4B~6B.
Another important factor on the mark of dry media tools depending of kind support, for instance, a pressed paper when is compared with a textured paper (like as Ingres and Murillo papers, etc) has a grain more small and the material released of the dry tool will have an aspect different.
In Digital Painting we don't have support concept while we are paint or drawing, except our works are printed. For this reason, many of digital tools or presets to emulate drawing tools must have also the emulation of support.

#### The main aspects of dry media
The main aspects of dry media on real drawing/painting tasks are:
1. Tip Aspect shapes of the tool. Each media tool has its own natural shapes or the capacity to produce different kind shapes following the orientation and gesture of the hand. For instance, the pencil and crayon has a similar tip: round when used with 60~90 degrees in relation of surface support and prismatic when is heavily inclined.
2. Tilt/Pressure - mark variations along the stroke, for instance, when the tool is inclined/pressed, the stroke could modify how is the original mark is printed with the tool at 90 degrees with same weight. The quality mark can be modified mainly on the size, opacity/hardness, aspect and texture variations.
3. Texture - this aspect on dry media is in great part derivative of two components: the media material, also its components and, the support utilized (paper, canvas, wood, etc.). Supposing a perfect and sharp surface, e.g. the glass, is very difficult to create a stroke mark and to remain material of media attached it.
4. Blending capabilities - on some dry medias we have interesting blending skills, for instance, the colored pencils have this possibility, also the crayon. Is possible to use, on pastel and charcoal, the 'sfumino' to create blending effect.

The parameters that we can use to emulate these aspects on digital painting could be:
1. Aspect tip variations;
2. Spread or jittery of the mark tip;
3. Angle (size, opacity, hardness, );
4. Pressure (size, opacity, mark texture, );
5. Velocity and Acceleration (size, opacity, mark texture, );
6. Blending skill [color (fg/bg); opacity x tilt, hardness x tilt, ...)

## References:
1. [Dry Media Definition](https://helenatkn.wordpress.com/2016/03/15/dry-media-wet-media-digital-media-individual-research/ "Dry Media Definition")
2. [Steven Saitzyk Website Project- Adjunt Professor at Art Center of Design in Pasadena](http://www.trueart.info/?page_id=289 "True Art Information - Information About Artist's Meterials")
3. [Pigments History](http://www.jcsparks.com/painted/pigment-chem.html "Pigments History")
4. [Pigment Catalog](http://www.webexhibits.org/pigments/intro/pigments.html "Pigments Trough the Ages")
5. [Pigments on Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pigment "Pigment History and References")

Commit message:

Added introduction of the dry media relationship with paint dynamics parameters...

paint-dynamics-howto.md, after:

# How to use the GIMP Paint Dynamics
The main scope is describe the guidelines to emulate some paint techniques.
## Dry Media
Dry Media is normally associated with drawing tools, such as *graphite pencils*, *charcoal*, *pastel* and *crayon*.
These drawing tools depending of the material which is build releases onto support surface, in general paper, creating a characteristic mark.
The dry media is probably the most ancestral way of visual communication, for instance, the Lascaux's and Altamira's caves are a great example of that.
The dry media are the main tools to drawing and sketching on the most common artistic tasks.
### Dry Media Techniques
Here I will try study how these aspects could be emulated via paint dynamics, for instance, the 'outline' technique is very simple to emulate but 'gradate' and 'layering' are just more complex, because they need blending capabilities.
The more common techniques are:

1. Outline
2. Hatching
3. Cross Hatching
4. Pointillism
5. Gradate (Back and Fort Stroke. Scumbling, )
6. Layering

### Dry Media Marks and Emulation techniques
In general all dry media are similar marks among them with variations on the granularity, e.g., the graphite pencil has different hardness and is possible to see the charcoal aspect with graphite pencils with hardness around 4B~6B.
Another important factor on the mark of dry media tools depending of kind support, for instance, a pressed paper when is compared with a textured paper (like as Ingres and Murillo papers, etc) has a grain more small and the material released of the dry tool will have an aspect different.
In Digital Painting we don't have support concept while we are paint or drawing, except our works are printed. For this reason, many of digital tools or presets to emulate drawing tools must have also the emulation of support.

#### The main aspects of dry media
The main aspects of dry media on real drawing/painting tasks are:
1. Tip Aspect shapes of the tool. Each media tool has its own natural shapes or the capacity to produce different kind shapes following the orientation and gesture of the hand. For instance, the pencil and crayon has a similar tip: round when used with 60~90 degrees in relation of surface support and prismatic when is heavily inclined.
2. Tilt/Pressure - mark variations along the stroke, for instance, when the tool is inclined/pressed, the stroke could modify how is the original mark is printed with the tool at 90 degrees with same weight. The quality mark can be modified mainly on the size, opacity/hardness, aspect and texture variations.
3. Texture - this aspect on dry media is in great part derivative of two components: the media material, also its components and, the support utilized (paper, canvas, wood, etc.). Supposing a perfect and sharp surface, e.g. the glass, is very difficult to create a stroke mark and to remain material of media attached it.
4. Blending capabilities - on some dry medias we have interesting blending skills, for instance, the colored pencils have this possibility, also the crayon. Is possible to use, on pastel and charcoal, the 'sfumino' to create blending effect.

The parameters that we can use to emulate these aspects on digital painting could be:
1. Aspect tip variations;
2. Spread or jittery of the mark tip;
3. Angle (size, opacity, hardness, );
4. Pressure (size, opacity, mark texture, );
5. Velocity and Acceleration (size, opacity, mark texture, );
6. Blending skill [color (fg/bg); opacity x tilt, hardness x tilt, ...)

## References:
1. [Dry Media Definition](https://helenatkn.wordpress.com/2016/03/15/dry-media-wet-media-digital-media-individual-research/ "Dry Media Definition")
2. [Steven Saitzyk Website Project- Adjunt Professor at Art Center of Design in Pasadena](http://www.trueart.info/?page_id=289 "True Art Information - Information About Artist's Meterials")
3. [Pigments History](http://www.jcsparks.com/painted/pigment-chem.html "Pigments History")
4. [Pigment Catalog](http://www.webexhibits.org/pigments/intro/pigments.html "Pigments Trough the Ages")
5. [Pigments on Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pigment "Pigment History and References")
